=pod

=for test_synopsis 1;
__END__

=for stopwords formatters CPAN homepage

=head1 NAME

HTML::Formatter - Base class for HTML formatters

=head1 VERSION

version 2.13

=head1 SYNOPSIS

  use HTML::FormatSomething;
  my $infile  = "whatever.html";
  my $outfile = "whatever.file";
  open OUT, ">$outfile"
   or die "Can't write-open $outfile: $!\n";

  print OUT HTML::FormatSomething->format_file(
    $infile,
      'option1' => 'value1',
      'option2' => 'value2',
      ...
  );
  close(OUT);

=head1 DESCRIPTION

HTML::Formatter is a base class for classes that take HTML and format it to
some output format.  When you take an object of such a base class and call
C<$formatter->format( $tree )> with an L<HTML::TreeBuilder> (or
L<HTML::Element>) object, they return the appropriately formatted string for
the input HTML.

HTML formatters are able to format a HTML syntax tree into various printable
formats.  Different formatters produce output for different output media.
Common for all formatters are that they will return the formatted output when
the format() method is called.  The format() method takes a HTML::Element
object (usually the HTML::TreeBuilder root object) as parameter.

The distribution name has been changed to C<HTML-Formatter> as detailed in
L<DISTRIBUTION NAME>

=head1 METHODS

=head2 new

    my $formatter = FormatterClass->new(
        option1 => value1, option2 => value2, ...
    );

This creates a new formatter object with the given options.

=head2 format_file

=head2 format_from_file

    $string = FormatterClass->format_file(
        $html_source,
        option1 => value1, option2 => value2, ...
        );

Return a string consisting of the result of using the given class to format the
given HTML file according to the given (optional) options. Internally it calls
C<< SomeClass->new( ... )->format( ... ) >> on a new HTML::TreeBuilder object
based on the given HTML file.

=head2 format_string

=head2 format_from_string

    $string = FormatterClass->format_string(
        $html_source,
        option1 => value1, option2 => value2, ...
        );

Return a string consisting of the result of using the given class to format the
given HTML source according to the given (optional) options. Internally it
calls C<< SomeClass->new( ... )->format( ... ) >> on a new HTML::TreeBuilder
object based on the given source.

=head2 format

    my $render_string = $formatter->format( $html_tree_object );

This renders the given HTML object according to the options set for $formatter.

After you've used a particular formatter object to format a particular HTML
tree object, you probably should not use either again.

=head1 DISTRIBUTION NAME

This module was originally named C<HTML-Format> despite not containing a
C<HTML::Format> module within it.  As rules on naming have been taken more
seriously, and the L<PAUSE|https://pause.perl.org/> toolchain adapted so that
getting the distribution indexed was more difficult, it became obvious that I
should rename the distribution to C<HTML-Formatter> matching the base
L<HTML::Formatter> module.

As of release 2.13 this is released as the C<HTML-Formatter> distribution with
corresponding changes to the git repository name and associated items.

Due to the way that the module is put together this should have no effect on
code using the module.  The only issues will be where the distribution name was
used within dependancies.

=head1 SEE ALSO

The three specific formatters:-

=over

=item L<HTML::FormatText>

Format HTML into plain text

=item L<HTML::FormatPS>

Format HTML into postscript

=item L<HTML::FormatRTF>

Format HTML into Rich Text Format

=back

Also the HTML manipulation libraries used - L<HTML::TreeBuilder>,
L<HTML::Element> and L<HTML::Tree>

=head1 INSTALLATION

See perlmodinstall for information and options on installing Perl modules.

=head1 BUGS AND LIMITATIONS

You can make new bug reports, and view existing ones, through the
web interface at L<http://rt.cpan.org/Public/Dist/Display.html?Name=HTML-Formatter>.

=head1 AVAILABILITY

The project homepage is L<https://metacpan.org/release/HTML-Formatter>.

The latest version of this module is available from the Comprehensive Perl
Archive Network (CPAN). Visit L<http://www.perl.com/CPAN/> to find a CPAN
site near you, or see L<https://metacpan.org/module/HTML::Formatter/>.

=head1 AUTHORS

=over 4

=item *

Nigel Metheringham <nigelm@cpan.org>

=item *

Sean M Burke <sburke@cpan.org>

=item *

Gisle Aas <gisle@ActiveState.com>

=back

=head1 COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

This software is copyright (c) 2015 by Nigel Metheringham, 2002-2005 Sean M Burke, 1999-2002 Gisle Aas.

This is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
the same terms as the Perl 5 programming language system itself.

=cut
